>> Evan You: The next
topic is Form Validation.
So, before we go into the actual code,
I want to talk about that.
Form Validation, in terms of components,
there are two schools of thought,
different styles, I would say.
So one of them is markup-based and
the other is model-based.
So vee-validate and vuelidate are two
of the probably most popular form of
validation plugins in the vue ecosystem,
and they take two different approaches.
Markup-based means the rules for
validating a form
field is directly declared in the template
along with the element Itself.
Similar to how html form elements
allows you to do things like inputs.
Main length equals 5 or
max length equals 20.
Everything is sort of on
the component directly there.
You're essentially declaring your
rules right in your template.
So that's one way to go about it.
And the other way to go
about it is model-based.
Essentially you declare your
validation rules inside the JavaScript.
The good thing about the model-based
validation rule is that your templates
will look cleaner.
And the other thing is because you're
using JavaScript declared rules,
it's easier to implement
custom validation rules.
If you go the market-based route, you're
essentially relying on the library, or
the plugin to pre-implement all
the validation rules for you.
So that you can directly reference them
in your template using attributes or
directives.
But using a JavaScript-based validation
rule in addition to these built-in rules
that the library provide,
you can implement your own.
You can mix and match using existing
validation libraries, pure JavaScript
validation libraries, to combine it with
your validation plugin to do things.
So in the next example, I'm going to walk
through how to build a very simple version
of a validation library that's very
similar to how vuelidate works in practice